Bogus Paper: The Key to Sustainable Packaging

In the 21st century, retail has been completely transformed. E-commerce evolution has changed the way products are packaged and shipped. Today’s consumers are becoming increasingly tech-savvy and very particular about what they need and how they need it. Hence, packaging has assumed a far greater significance in the art of retailing than ever before. In fact, even the hospitality industry is witnessing a transformation in the manner of packaging and delivery of food items after the arrival of food delivery apps.

Irrespective of the product you purchase or whether you do so online or from a physical store, there are numerous parameters that a packaging is judged on. While the first and foremost purpose of packaging is to ensure that the product reaches the customer without any damage or spillage, it is also important for it to effectively display the branding of the company.

Further, the packaging has to be customer friendly. Nobody wants to grapple with a package that is sealed like a bank vault. It has to be sturdy, safe, yet easy to open. Another packaging factor that can endear a brand to its customers is the recyclability of the packaging material. If it can be reused or recycled then it is likely to win more loyalty and positive feedback from the customers.


Bogus Paper- Sustainable Packaging PaperThis is exactly what our Bogus Paper can do for you. It is created by using a mixture of recycled Kraft paper, newsprint, industrial tissue paper as well as various other types of used and recycled paper. Since we make Bogus Paper out of these 100% recycled materials, no trees are required to be cut for it, and it helps in bringing down the carbon footprint. Hence Bogus Paper rolls are not only great to use, but, contribute towards a sustainable environment.

We also offer you the highly affordable and environment-friendly, Bogus Kraft paper rolls which are made from 100% recycled Kraft paper mixed with newsprint. It is an excellent product. It is a comparatively more sturdy paper and can be of great use while wrapping books, electronic products, boxes etc to ensure that the package is protected from scratches. It is extensively used in packaging of a wide range of products all over the country. Another great thing about our Bogus Kraft paper rolls as well as other eco-friendly packaging materials is that they are all manufactured in USA and not imported.

Another highly environment-friendly product that is widely used in ecommerce shipments today is our Water-Activated-Tape (WAT). It is an incredibly beneficial product and is preferred by businesses that work on a ‘quality first’ principle. If you can overlook the cost comparison between our Water-Activated-Tapes and the conventional plastic, pressure-sensitive-tapes (PST), then you would discover that WAT offers several great benefits such as:

 



Superior Product Protection:
Upon application, the Water-Activated-Tape bonds strongly to the carton and becomes a tamper-proof seal for the shipments. It is an effective measure to prevent occurrence of ‘lost-in-transit’ incidents and the costs incurred on re-shipping the goods. If you are an online retailer then ‘thefts’ not only cost you the product’s price, but, also damage your goodwill, and those costs can be really high.



Less Material Wastage:
Conventional plastic pressure-sensitive tapes often don’t seal the carton securely and multiple layers have to be applied. It is not uncommon to see some of the packages being turned into a mummy to protect them. On the other hand, water activated tape is made from plastic and usually strengthened by fibre glass layers. Upon being activated with water, its starch based adhesive merges with the carton, providing a permanent bond with the package. Only one strip of tape is used to secure the package, thus, resulting in less material wastage which in turn makes these tapes more economical to use despite a higher per foot cost compared to the typical plastic tapes.



Durability:
Plastic tapes might not be such a great protection against heat exposure, but, water-activated tape is extremely durable, and it can resist dirt, freezing cold or extremely hot weather conditions.



Environment-friendly:
Water-activated tapes are bio-degradable, and that makes them absolutely environment-friendly. Thus, if you are a brand that emphasizes on sustainability and environment protection then our water-activated tapes are an ideal packaging material for you.

Holland Manufacturing is also a trusted name when it comes to Reinforced Tapes. We produce a range of such tapes containing filament that is woven and embedded into the tape adhesive. This makes the tapes highly tensile, anti-abrasive and more rugged to use. Our reinforced tape is the ideal choice if you are looking to enhance the security of your package.

One of our most environment-friendly products is Kraft Paper. With the emphasis on sustainability and adoption of green practices and materials in businesses all over the world, the awareness about Kraft paper is also increasing. We make this environment-friendly paper using the Kraft process, which is the process of turning wood into wood pulp using chemicals. Wood contains cellulose and lignin. However, lignin has a negative impact on the paper quality. Therefore, a mixture of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulphide is used to remove lignin from the wood. This process turns the wood chips into a pulp and after a cleaning process; it is this pulp that is used to make paper.

Since the Kraft paper contains less lignin compared to the conventional papers, it is sturdier and suitable for a wider range of usage. Further, it can be produced any type of wood including even bamboo or resinous pine, which are not used in conventional paper production. The fact that the chemicals used in making Kraft paper are reusable, this process is environment-friendly and sustainable.

Being lightweight, it is also a good packaging option as it doesn’t make your packages heavier. It is coarse in texture, thus, more durable and offers you flexibility as far as protection is concerned. It is a good option for wrapping packages, printing cards or as a creative DIY material.

At Holland Manufacturing, we are committed to offering packaging products that are affordable, high-quality and environment-friendly. If you are a business looking to adopt eco-friendly and sustainable packaging solutions, then you can try our products by visiting us at : https://www.hollandmfg.com/contact/contact-us/request-asample/

Back to All Blogs

About Holland Manufacturing Company

Holland Manufacturing Company Offers / Provides Product like Water Activated Tape, Blue Shield Industrial Products, Specialty Coated and Laminated Products, Custom Printed Labels & Tags, Industrial Paper Products etc.

Talk to us On- 1-800-345-0492 Or FAX: 1-973-598-6233 Or Email us at info@hollandmfg.com

Happy to help!

https://www.hollandmfg.com


